README.md, before:

an example azure basic sku load balancer

![](architecture.png)

# Usage (on a Ubuntu Desktop)

Install the tools:

```bash
./provision-tools.sh
```

Login into azure-cli:

```bash
az login
```

List the subscriptions and select the current one if the default is not OK:

```bash
az account list
az account set --subscription=<id>
```

Review `main.tf` and maybe change the `location` variable.

Initialize terraform:

```bash
make terraform-init
```

Launch the example:

```bash
make terraform-apply
```

Using the Azure Portal, use `Run command | Run Command Script` to run the `provision-web.sh` script in the `web1` virtual machine to launch an example web server.

Using a web browser, access the `web` load balancer IP, and see it show a page from `web1` virtual machine.

Repeat for the `web2` virtual machine and see it periodically changing from showing a page from `web1` and `web2` virtual machine. You can test with:

```bash
while true; do wget -qO- "http://$(terraform output app1_load_balancer_ip_address)/test" | grep VM; sleep .1; done
```

# Basic SKU Load Balancer Notes

* A load labancer can only be in a single availibilty set.
* You can only use *one* internal and one public load balancer per availibilty set.
* You can assign several frontend IP addresses to a single load-balancer.
* From a single load-balancer, You can access several backend services by running them in different ports.

# Reference

* [Azure Load Balancer](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/load-balancer/)
* [Manage the availability of Linux virtual machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/manage-availability)
* [Business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR): Azure Paired Regions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/best-practices-availability-paired-regions)

Commit message:

automatically execute provision-web.sh from cloud-init

README.md, after:

an example azure basic sku load balancer

![](architecture.png)

# Usage (on a Ubuntu Desktop)

Install the tools:

```bash
./provision-tools.sh
```

Login into azure-cli:

```bash
az login
```

List the subscriptions and select the current one if the default is not OK:

```bash
az account list
az account set --subscription=<id>
```

Review `main.tf` and maybe change the `location` variable.

Initialize terraform:

```bash
make terraform-init
```

Launch the example:

```bash
make terraform-apply
```

At VM initialization time [cloud-init](https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) will run the `provision-web.sh` script to launch the example applications.

After VM initialization is done (check the boot diagnostics serial log for cloud-init entries), test the `app1` endpoint to see it periodically changing from showing a page from `web1` and `web2` virtual machine. You can test with:

```bash
while true; do wget -qO- "http://$(terraform output app1_load_balancer_ip_address)/test" | grep VM; sleep .1; done
```

# Basic SKU Load Balancer Notes

* A load labancer can only be in a single availibilty set.
* You can only use *one* internal and one public load balancer per availibilty set.
* You can assign several frontend IP addresses to a single load-balancer.
* From a single load-balancer, You can access several backend services by running them in different ports.

# Reference

* [Azure Load Balancer](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/load-balancer/)
* [Manage the availability of Linux virtual machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/manage-availability)
* [Business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR): Azure Paired Regions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/best-practices-availability-paired-regions)
